Blokus Classic Board Game Rules
The most awarded game of the 21st century, Blokus classic, is a strategy game and a catalyst for spatial thinking.

Read ahead for details.

Components

Blokus classic package is a large attractive square box. The instruction sheet is a one pager, with simple
rules with vibrant color on both sides. Several illustrations demonstrating examples of play make the already 
simple rules even easier to pick up. A silver plastic playing board has raised edges on small squares that are 
designed to make the pieces satisfyingly fit. Each player gets one of the four sets of 21 pieces each set in 
red, blue, green or yellow. The square pieces are a striking translucent plastic range.

Set up

No game set up can be as simple as Blokus. 
1. Layout your silver board. 
2. Each player gets a set of 21 squares as Blokus Pieces.

You are all set to play!

Play and Rules

To win Blokus game : 
The player's goal in this game is to place all or maximum of their 21 pieces on the board.

Rules of Blokus Classic :
 

Each player gets to place one piece per turn. The goal of the game is to play all your pieces eventually. Each 
player should begin in a separate corner and works inward from there. After the first turn, you can play anywhere 
on the board.

The most important and ONLY rule of Blokus - the piece you play must touch the corner of at least one of your 
other pieces and should never touch the side of any of your own pieces. See the figures below. You can touch the 
sides of other players' pieces.


The one rule of Blokus classic is simple to learn especially for very young children. Do not worry if they 
sometimes have difficulty grasping the concept of always touching a corner rule.


A few games of practice, trust me, they get it. The colorful pieces and shapes really makes Blokus attractive 
to children.


This game is so flexible, even a single player can play it.

End of the game : 
The game ends for a player when a player is blocked and is not able to place any pieces on the board according 
to the rules. The game itself ends when no one can place any more pieces on the board anymore.

Scoring :

After the game ends, count the number of pieces each player unable to place on the board. Each square that is not 
placed counts as a negative point.Award a bonus of 15 points if all 21 pieces got placed on the board. 
A bumper bonus of to 20 points is awarded if the 21 pieces were placed on the board and the last piece placed is 
a single square. The player with maximum points wins.

This game is learning with fun – Buy now and start playing to promote your kid’s creative thinking!